[MUSIC PLAYING]
What if I just pissed in that bottle that that those ions would just be like we're gonna make this beautiful water. Peace ends. Yeah
Coming up
Drink the piss over achieving piss
Delicious refreshing. I don't know why they sponsored us. All we did was just make fun of them
They're gonna want their money back
Have this delicious aquafina, which is like the lucky strikes of water
My grandfather smoked like strikes filterless no less yeah
That's a man cigarette Dave who do I know one relative of mine smoked filterless lucky so I can't remember
Who right now my grandpa didn't rock this I think he was fucking with mental to just weird weird and hindsight my grandparents were Newport
Hmm. That's what I remember is a good and my grandmother had like a like a cigarette case that was like puffy and
Like you pulled up at the top and then you put like a pack as is it's not like a
Fancy cigarette case where you take out the cigarettes and you put them in. Oh, I'm sorry. It's just a table
Yeah, you just look like a change purse. Yes
Yeah back when smoking used to be stylish. Yeah, yeah
Used to yeah or if you have like a cigarette hole holder. That was a cool that was a cool look
I definitely rock that for a little while did you really not the goth club for sure nice holding my
Club cigarettes and all black Onyx cigarette holder as one of the gothier sentences. I've ever heard and a vintage
cigarette case
Fuck yeah, that's unfuck with a ball. Yeah, that's it's weird cuz now I see people smoking
I'm just look at it like oh pricey
10 bucks a pack like you're doing already for yourself really dedicated to cancer
Yeah, it's been I don't think I've had a cigarette like a decade or 11 years or something like the high prices have really weeded out the
Smoking plebs right only the elite give them on the vape stay on it these days
Yeah, this little gross little trash cans they put them out
Suckin on that robot dick. It's be a man. Gonna luck a strike
It's a weed babe don't worry folks
Somehow not a robot trash can
How the fuck did we get down this
I was gonna
Talk about water. We definitely lost our aquafina sponsorship. Yeah, this is always blowing our sponsors
Yeah last like five minutes
Already texted us
Episode 36
I trust you with these numbers. I try to keep track 36 chambers of your rack right
Yeah, Wu tang shout out to signal sounds for the sponsorship for the free effects
April
No, they fucked up and sent it to me by accident. I think this is close as we've gotten to getting
It
Did we get a mailing error?
mailing error and we made it boys
Please send us your prototypes by accident by accident
Then ask Andrew hey money
Yeah, that's because to pay money. That is what I will not do
Not get that back unless UPS comes to my house very politely
And even then like have you thought about putting like a module that you're not interested in in the box
And sending that bag goes just what it came up in a brick. Yeah, that's how I that's what I do with routers
I've told you my router trick right?
I've only bought one router in the 90s and then I get a neckier router take my old one
Put it in that box and then return it
They they they used to at least look at it open it up and go. Yeah, this is not a neckier
Router and they would accept the return last time I did it
I went through the trouble of you basically putting my old shitty router into this box and returning they didn't even fucking open it
Like yeah, it could have been empty. They don't care. Yeah, so that's what I used to do with my graphics cards
Yeah, with Best Buy. Oh, yeah, every two years go get like a new EVGA
Throw in the old one the one time I went through all the trouble of removing the heat sinks
Yeah, you know, you know the fans and stickers so that it looked legit put it all in the package
Yeah, same deal thing fucking look at it. It was like come on man
Like made me feel like I you know I'm getting away with it
That with NPCs and guitar center, but it was actually a broken
NPC 1000 or they might have broken or something like that and they just like swap the guts out
Send it back the fresh NPC inside nice work
Good for them. Fuck all these corporations
I can't really do anymore the graphic cards are so fucking ridiculous now like no
the size of a computer and
Can't just do the old swap of the heat sink now like yeah, they're like in like, you know a solid chunk of metal
Yeah, I mean they're basically small little computers in and of themselves at this point. Yeah
You know with the recent like crypto crash. It'll be interesting to see what happens with that
They're coming down in press. Yeah and available for a long time
You just couldn't get them because crypto was just buying all that shit up
I love all the farms like trying to sell like totally like
Nice burned down
Here are 10 bucks. It's like dude. That is not gonna do any more bitcoin mining
It's been uh, it's only been two months since the last episode
Really only been two months. I it feels like a fucking year. It does
Yeah
We and we were going to record earlier, but this is it's my fault
I will accept the blame for the delay in this one. I would like
Summer a lot. He's just you're just like, yeah, just we always generically summer. Yeah, that's true. It's hot
It's gonna take a little more time. I think we got these summer flings
We gotta go on a lot of dates at the sock hop
Yeah, I tried to keep track of some of the stuff that has occurred
Since the last episode and now
You have a timeline. Yeah, not I didn't go as far as making a time. Let's get it. Um
We we lost some great names. Oh, yes, this is true
We lost
evangelists
Dave Smith
Andy Fletcher
And Massimo Marante didn't we also lose close
All schools did it. Yeah, I missed that one. Yeah, Jesus. I repeat all of them. All right, Pete all
Crazy. That's heavy heavy two months. Yeah, yeah
um
It wasn't a death but in mutable instruments announced they're discontinuing
All production not just making new stuff
um
That really bummed me out to hear shouldn't announce why but I think we can all probably
Figure out some of the elements that led to that decision
um still bomber companies abusing
or uh open source model. Yeah, um
See what else we got here
Do do do oh super booth and summer nam both happened in the last two months
I have I've noticed on uh things that I saw at super booth. Okay. Um, I think nam was just a regurgitation
Yeah, so I don't think much came out during nam that I remember. I mean, is there more on your timeline?
No, I
I just jotted down some of the stuff that also caught my eye from both super booth and nam following that
Um, so yeah, we can just dip into that shit. That works for me
Hell yeah
I mean who wants to start
You me you you said
Steve be much super booth before we get going do you want me to just rifle through my list or do one and round robin
We can round robin all right. Let's round robin this um
Nana I don't want to start with I want to start with this one. Um, uh, the soma terra
I totally missed that was this too
No, this is the weird wood instrument
Oh, okay, so it's made of
world
What was that terrifying voice you just did that's from a full house dude. Come on, dave
It's the wood chuck guy fucking joey. Yeah, what can I remember Bible man?
Wait, what wait what?
That's Bible man. Was he all do religious too? Yeah, that's Bible man. Yeah, um wait
Not john stamas not john stamas the other brother. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. He's Bible man
Really? Yeah, that's like
absurd
We're gonna say fact check this because I don't want to be wrong, but I'm like 99.5
Percential. We don't need a faction
Hello listeners dave here
I'm interrupting our broadcast to let you know that I was wrong
Bible man is willy aims who played buddy lembec
the goofy best friend of the titular charles and charles in charge
The goofy uncle joey in four house was played by dave kulee
Who briefly dated canadian singer songwriter alana's more set
Is believed by some that she wrote the top 10 smash hit single you want to know about him
We now return to our regularly scheduled broadcast already in progress
That's how we roll here. We don't verify. Yeah, thanks be damned now on
He's bible man. He's bible man. Um, but no, it's um, so it's
it's it's main sort of like
Presentation is it's a chunk of wood and it's got a lot of body contacts and um a couple of knobs that affect
um
different parameters and
So, but what is it is a sin? It is a sin is a full voice synth
Kind of like the lyra, but made of wood or what?
That's a really good question
Because a lot of the videos I saw were basically just people showing it off and showing like there's a big sort of set of
Body contacts that sort of line up with as you would sort of ergonomically place your hand on it
And then sort of beside them are these smaller body contacts that are modifiers on that
Um almost it kind of reminded me a little bit of like an accordion
Where you would have like notes and then you would have these sort of like modifiers to them
So the they're typically pitch
But if you press another body contact and hit it it becomes a argument for
Um a parameter all digital polyphonic
um crazy um
uh like effects and reverb and
Super these sort of like lush sounds were coming out of it. Um, and yeah, the whole thing is encased in um basically like a
Cross-section like a slice of uh of a tree like you can see like the bark on the outside of it
Like it looks like an end table. I didn't notice that. That's cool
It was um, I mean there's there's a gimmick element obviously of it being in this wood thing, but the sounds
Maybe not necessarily for me, but it kind of maybe a
An apanology is a sort of cross between like full tech and um
The other some of the the pipe. Mm. Um
But it caught my eye and I don't I there was no I couldn't see anything about praise
Um
But yeah, I thought that was a that was a standout weird instrument and I think it's
Continuing with the soma just bonkers approach to everything they do which uh, I'm here for I'm here for
I'm all I'm all in favor of it didn't even know they had something new coming up last I saw they had like
Midi looper sequence. Yeah, yeah
I think it's audio loopers in midi looper. I thought it was a sequence looper, but it could be wrong
I don't know because it does something where like changes it constantly. I don't know
It didn't really catch my attention. So I didn't look too far into it. Yeah
Well, maybe if it was housed in a chunk of wood or piece of granite absolutely
It was in quartz. Maybe it was quartz. I would buy it whatever it was
I mean, he usually is interesting stuff so I can see like normally like it's gonna be worth it
Exactly
Even without the novelty of it being in wood
Probably would have come at eye just for how
The weird sounds they were doing the way they were performing with it
seemed like an interesting take on it. Mm-hmm
When did it say it was gonna come out or like I got nothing as far as release dates or price or availability or
You know, it's it's it's it seems like they were very focused on present all the videos
I saw were just presenting
The idea so I I have no other information outside of that other than I'll keep an eye on it
And if it's reasonably priced, I might give it a shot
Seems to be kind of a common vibe with super booth this year. A lot of people didn't really have
a timeline or even
A definitive price for a lot of stuff. They were showing off. It was more just showing off proof of concept
Stuff I've noticed the only the only thing I have a definitive price on
And it's a lot is the erica centrix 2
Ah, that was on my first list or the first on my list. That's that's why it's between
I was between that and the the terra, um, but 1800 euros
And say I have a higher price than that
But yeah, if you're saying euros and that's probably why my nose. Oh, yeah
This was from gert's while he was it was one of the videos where he was like 1800 euros
I was like
Not surprised it does a lot but that was literally the only thing I saw a price attached to more than the last one
Less it is less. That's what I wrote in my notes at least if I recalled
I don't remember the exact number of the original centrix, but I swear it was over 3,000
Yeah, I think it was 3,200
Yeah, this is like a thousand dollars less
It comes in at 2179 USD
Would you like to talk about that correct sure? I I tried it some notes that well
I tried it some no sound about erica's announcements overall
Yeah, um the first one that really caught my eye was the lxr o2 euro module. Yep. Yep. Um
Yeah, I mean we've discussed the lxr quite a few times in previous episodes both of them
Both versions. Yeah, and you know
We're all fans of it in all its for eyes forms
And this is kind of a cool surprise. Not something I saw coming
Um, oh that sounds refreshing. It is
It's funny you say that about yeah, of course. It's funny great because this is uh the arsenal
Um picket bone dry. Oh, which is what I dressed up
This is the stuff that you have gotten for me in the past and hated it. Yeah
I think I remember you taking a sip of it. Oh, yeah, it's the cabin and I was just like how is it just like drinking sand
I think you said it made you more thirsty than when you started drinking it did is what was your review of this?
It made my mouth dryer. It's delicious
How's that even physically possible? But you heard that fizzing. I did it here. It's a damn good fizz. It's good. Yeah
Not my not my cup of tea, but yeah lxr module. Yeah, um
Pretty cool. It's super compact like, you know, I've been trying to get away from doing drums and modular again
Not me. Um, yeah
Yeah
This this kind of wants me to just kind of pull me back in that direction a little bit
This would be a in my opinion like a really good heart
Of a modular drum system. Yeah, um, it's only like 500 bucks. Um, it has
Seven trigger ends six accent ends five cv inputs and four audio outputs. So
It's not just, you know, you're not just triggering static sounds like cv inputs. Yeah. Oh
Did not pick that up. Yeah, that's kind of what piqued my interest to goes like that is cool
Because that's something that I've always felt the elixir lack like, you know, I use the on board elifos
Does it still have the on board modulation? Yes, it's still the same engine. So 500 bucks
It's actually cheaper than the stand alone. It is because you don't have all the oh power
You don't have the power. You don't have the sequencer. Yeah, so you will have to spend money to sequence this thing
Which I think ericos smart. Yeah, picking this up because it looks like it would be perfect to pair up with the erica drum sequence
Absolutely. Um, the strong point of the elixir are either
See, no, like I always enjoyed the micro steps. Yeah, but yeah, if you're doing it all in euro anyways, you have a lot of options for that sort of thing already
Um, so yeah, it's pretty appealing
I feel like that was their strongest release and I think that is available now
There was places that were offering it for sale
Um everything else that they were talking about the centrix and the perkins. Yep all pre-order still
um
Yeah, I don't entirely know the differences between centrix one and two. I tried looking it up
It was a little confusing to me. I because sonically it sounded
Pretty similar, but I also this was youtube videos and I've not actually experienced either of them live
um, but what I was what the demos I was seeing of the centrix two had that same sort of
like
70s noise freak out vibe. Um
But I mean it must be different somehow if it's significantly cheaper
And they bothered to make a new version of it. They could have just kept going with the original rev
Yeah, they're not like clear about the delta between the two either
That's the thousand bucks. Why should I get this one still right?
No, because this is the new one that I will be able to buy you know comes in black this time
Yeah, it does look cool. It's a little smaller too or something a little more compact. What was it?
Not sure it looked pretty big. I mean they both look pretty big. So it's a big
And they both had a joystick
joystick matrix model very looks very similar scinthe inspired. Yeah. Yeah. Oh, yeah, it was very clear where they were
Taking inspiration from but I remember listening to the demos of the first one and first being completely
Turned off by the price and then secondly by how much it didn't sound like a scinthe to my ears
Yeah, so this is kind of like no, so I just kind of dropped it off my radar
No, no speakers. No spring reverb. Oh no spring rerout
More effects and sequencing options. Mm. Well, I don't think that would drop the price by a thousand from spring verb
Was it an actual spring? I thought it was a digital or am I thinking of the so real deal? Okay
I mean it still doesn't explain the thousand dollars, but yeah, maybe they listened to us bitching about the price
Over time. It seems likely what that Perkins like we have that much influence. I mean, I had another thing in my erica since the list
The Perkins no no, um actually it's
It's kind of a deviation from probably what we would normally talk about
I was really impressed with the updates to the edu
Series. Oh, those are cool. Yeah, and it's it's a partnership with moritz klein
Um, and it's entry level diy modules super easy to build very
It's designed to help you sort of get your feet wet with since of this and understanding it and they added a what they were
Showing it super booth at least. Um, they were adding a sequence or two it all diy all super cheap
Easy to make um
I think it's awesome that they're doing that like to really sort of like break down that barrier of this being somewhat
um, you know, tooth
Thought it's thought to be a somewhat obtuse and difficult thing to get into
And it's kind of breaking that down a little bit into it like here. No, this is how you get started with it
Doesn't have to be this huge
um financial investment and here's the primitives you need to get going
Yeah, and actually how the circuit works and they just walk you through that which nobody have built a bunch of modules
And I don't know how any of them work like that. So that's really cool. Yeah, it's like a fucking really simple module
Yeah, exactly. So I I wanted to give them a little bonus shout out for
Trying to pass on education and make this a little bit easier to get into yeah
Yeah, I almost got the sequence or for that reason. I was like, oh no, and it's cool
Like I still might someday but it was like I don't need to go down the project of learning how a sequence or works at a basic
Electronic level right now. I just want more time to use it. But it's cool. That's available like yes
It's a yeah, I so I want to give them a little a little bit of a
Nod for for adding that to their lineup, but yeah, the Perkins I think probably needs to be discussed at greater length
Yeah, and well, I don't think there's much to really discuss
still they uh, they're basically just announced it's open for pre-orders finally, right?
And we did talk about it from the original preview. Oh, yeah, and a lot of stuff. Yeah, and that's the thing just
That was it's been like a year now at least oh, yeah, because you're right and we still don't have a whole lot of
More information other than uh, it's going to cost at least the pre-orders cost 2059
USD
Ah, that's my go up even more after pre-order phase. Not sure. That's really expensive. It's expensive
It's really cool, but yeah, it's a full-blown drum machine with sequencer and CV abilities like
I
In 2020 I feel like two grand for a fully fledged drum machine
It's kind of fair. I mean, I remember paying that type of money for a tempest years ago
You know, I mean but
rhythms like $1,800 or something like that. I think more is it? Yeah, because I was looking at them
in comparison to the um
The new one the centric. I thought they were 1500s. I remember
I was buying dirt. They're more than double centric
Holy shit. Yeah, I think they're like 2,100. Damn
20 money and b2300. I don't know why that number's popping in my brain, but a centric is like a grand
Um, and yeah, because I was thinking I was like, why would someone want to get this
Centric and not just get a rhythm and then I saw it because it's literally like twice the price
1700 for rid the mark too. Really? Okay. I thought it was more
I don't know what I'm thinking of then
So shit's just expensive is what this is going to be pricey. Yeah, I I need to stop being shocked at
sticker prices. Yeah, well
Erica, I give them props like they don't seem like they're
Their prices seem can seem consistent. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, in fact like in the case of the centric
Centric my getting can name transfuse non-lavery
Centrics it's centrics. That's why I had the new electron box. Oh
Syntax syntax. Sorry. Yes. That's what I was trying to say before
In comparison. Yeah. Yeah. I don't have syntax on my on my list if we want to talk about it either me either
I I could do an episode without
Talking about electron for once. Absolutely. Yeah, but what about electron corner?
Is it gonna be dusty and yeah and alone and we just did mention them and this is the electron corner and that's it
That's it perfect. That's it for the wrap it up
Case dismissed short and sweet
What if that's the thing that we get fucking sued and taken down for? Yes
Of all the shit we do
But on the uh, jeers section of the erica corner, holy shit that black sequencer so close to being good
You shouldn't have software for something that means you can't fucking mute the channels reliably
Like you've deeply fucked up if it doesn't mute correctly
That's all I can say about that. That's a bummer because I know you were excited about it. It was cool
Um, but yeah, there are a few things about it. It was just like I can't roll with this
I don't know if you need 16 knobs to be able to twist you on a sequence or honestly
I'm down for holding a step and turning one knob over and over like it doesn't
You didn't really pan out in that way. Yeah, lots of cool features UI was perfect
But like the basic stuff to work are you need like an emergency release to like get muting to fucking work
Like it doesn't and people are like yeah, it's been like that for six months. It's like god damn
Yeah, I don't want to buy that. Fuck you
I had similar gripes with the drum sequencer back in the day in a similar situation
Yeah, I remember encountering little things like that
But I think the firmware for that is at least an updated sense right a lot and in much better state
I don't know how you can't just like
Even hack it to be like oh give up just make it so that output channel is at zero fucking volts like
I don't know. I knew software isn't as easy as people like to imagine it is. There's probably a reason that doesn't make sense
But holy shit, it's just muting a fucking channel
That in the way of the panel was arranged was a little weird
It was like someone laid it out on Photoshop. Mm-hmm. I didn't really like used it and figured out where things should kind of be, you know
Yeah, one of those gripes
It's not a gripe. No, it's legit. Yeah, you're a yeah, you're a sequencer guru addicted to them
We need a higher nick is our go-to
sequencer
Um, what's the word like?
I'm curious where you're going with this like if I ever have a question
Like oracle oracle. Yeah, you like the sequencer oracle. You like tried them all you know them all
I suck with sequencing. Oh, yeah, no you terrible. So what you described? Why a hasty beat actually was a man in my existence like
I do love them. There's something just really fucking appealing to me about a sequencer
It's like fucking it's something really weird. I don't know ever since that machine drama like broke me kind of this is foreshadowing for us
Talking about talking about the poly and play at some point
Gotcha the third act is gonna come back
Check off sequencer has to come back in the third act. Well, there's something I wanted to mention
I don't know why I didn't have it at the top because it's
I'm personally really excited. Well, super excited
Endorphins announced. Oh god yet another module that probably won't work right have a bad noise floor
Rather have a terrible noise floor. Mm-hmm and but
It has Andrew
Wang's name. Yeah, the uh on the panel the the tried the trying to do everything module. Yeah
Really? Of course ghost which is appropriate because it's fucking dead on arrival in my opinion. Oh take that
Really clean panel though like not much going on
Are you okay? Absolutely so cast absolutely packed with fucking text. I
We last at it and I was like, I don't even know what this thing's supposed to fucking do
I watch a video. I gave it a fair shot
I always give indoor friends a fair shot. Yeah, everything that I've tried by them
Makes fucking weird noises that it shouldn't make doesn't work properly
Things are like backwards. It's you know, I feel like they have some serious quality control
Oh, yeah, and the fact that like
They've released so many products over the last year or two
Haven't nailed those down, but now they're doing collaborations with influencers
Yeah, I think just kind of really goes the show
The direction that they're going and that's just marketing and cranking shit out regardless if it's actually like functional and this thing seems completely directionless
It's just like well. What if we just add this on top of it and this and this and this for what it's trying to do
It's packing far too much
Into a single module and I don't get a strong sense that it does any of the things on that list
Particularly well, yeah, because it's there like two parameters for every effect
Yeah, I guess the thing is like it's a multi effect that does all these things but like do you really fucking want that?
Especially if they got two parameters and it's it's gonna have like some 12 bit digital noise floor at like negative 50 decibels
that's like
There and all their gear, you know, that sampler was a fucking joke by the way
supposedly they got it nailed down in some of the more recent versions of the
squawk filter. Oh, yeah, which
It was the most recent one that I tried and it was the one to be in shit. Oh, yeah
I returned it the next day. Yeah, that's what did with the sample player thing
It turned like the next day and none of us bought that weird what was a black noir
The rum machine thing that they tried to do the weird 90
Yeah, that once I I mean we ripped that apart in a previous episode if I recall
But yeah, once I saw that you couldn't even tune the kick drum. Yeah, like well, I mean you can but not easily
You know, I was like you gotta be fucking kidding me and their excuse for that was well
The kick isn't something that you're going to be changing a lot
And I was just like that is good days are
If you're buying something that is based on a 909
you
like
You should have like an entire panel dedicated to the fucking kick
It's funny because one of the other things on my list is a kick drum module that has a ton of modulation and parameters
It's just a kick module. So it's someone who's like basically like let's not write
And you need to have a ton of control and it needs some morph over time. It needs a morph per step
Like we want interesting kick drums. Yeah, that was the opposite of that. Yeah
What a huge mess
the
Scaled down your ability to just tune the kick but added dumb shit like cabin pressure and thing
That's really that's how you get that dark tech note sound like is it
Really?
One would think maybe down tuning your kick might have a part of that sound too
But what do I know? Well, we get a trimmer behind the thing if you really need to do
Yeah, Andrew Wong's
I never know if I'm pronouncing his name. I think
I think I've heard him say it not he says it at the start of every episode
Yeah, he gives himself a high five and then make sure to say his name to himself
But some reason I don't remember
Yeah, you just get forwarded to
Meat of this whatever this video is
um
And I always make sure to skip over his rap sessions as well. That's it. Oh, yeah. Oh, no
I was a rough one recently now. I listened to all of them because it is
Beautiful torture. Mm. It is really exquisite
I remember I'm singing to like a crystal dog or something one in one video on a moon
I'll stick to my div kid videos. Thank you. Yeah. Yeah, we're just really down to the point
I'm gonna get stuck in over technical overviews. Yeah, let's get stuck in. Yeah, let's let's stay the fuck off the moon
Let's get stuck in so yeah, I'm not I I don't even have that uh that collab
module on my list I I put it on there because like it just kind of
I remember scrolling through like the day's announcements at the time and just seeing that and I was like what in the fuck is this
I do have to make out of this. Can always like see that email. What do you want to do?
I've got all these ideas. Let's do all I think
Like a compressor but a filter
Maybe a delay
Or is it even a is there even at the lane? I like to I forget a reverb. Yeah, distortion
I don't even know filter might be the one thing that's not on there. It's like everything else
I don't know it doesn't seem very innovative. It seemed very big
Is it stereo?
I I think I saw a stereo in and out like this is how much attention I pay to it
You know, I mean like I just
And I love my weird effects process
But I scroll through that and I just knew off the bat it would probably sound like shit. Not work correctly. Have a high noise floor
And it has an influencer's name pasted right on it like why the who who asked for that? That's a bit much
So fast forward three months from now when one of us gets it 12. Oh my god. I was totally wrong
Sorry listeners. It is stereo
Compressor ball and tone distortion side chain delay reverb filter
With no parameters over any of those circuits
barely anything and it's it's a real fucking mess. Yeah
Um, but that was an intro to a joke. Oh, I actually did have sorry. I'm not no no
Glad we all rolled with it. Yeah
I thought I could actually get you guys going for a minute
But you guys like knew immediately
As I said endorsements
There's no way I was being serious
Um, but yeah, there was an effects unit that did really catch my eye that did seem kind of cool
um
Company called fine gear, which I was incredibly unfamiliar with apparently they made some weird like spring verb
lo-fi box thing. Um, and now they have a new one. It's a tape delay
Sort of really with actual tape. Yes. Oh cool. Yeah
You can see the tape in the front. I think you can physically access the playheads
But the tape itself is behind like a clear looks like like plastic or something, you know, um, but yeah
It's an actual tape actual analog
um
It's a multi effects unit though. It's not just a taped lay
um, it's
Why am I drawing a blank on the name? Oh the dirt magnet is what they're calling it. No
Um
So it has the tape is it a is it a standalone or is it a mod standalone? Okay, but semi modular
Which is what really caught my eye. Okay. Cool. Uh, everything on it has like cv parameters
Including the tape drive itself. You can trigger. Oh, like change the speed of the
The playback to be a cv. That's um
You can cv the speed the region and the panning
of the actual
Motor and also there's a gate input which I think starts and stops the play. Yeah
So that caught my eye right off the bat. Um, but then the
it goes through a ms 20 based filter
um
a
Ring mod
a crackle circuit and a noise source circuit
And it has two digital syncable LFOs
All of these circuits are cvable and the whole thing is stereo through and through
It sounds like something out of a fever dream. I had. Yeah, that's how fucking amazing. It looked amazing. I was like
I'm kind of really into this. Yeah
It's big. Okay, it's yeah, it's not tiny. Um, it
It looks like the size of maybe like a soma labs pulsor maybe even bigger. Like it's just a big square
You know, it means like this big wooden thing. Um
Definitely a desktop unit
Um, but yeah semi modular with all of it
Not to derail, but you remember that vapor where like cassette
Delay module that was also huge. No. Yeah. Yeah
Remember like it's still people are probably trying to get their money from it like uh
It looked amazing. Yeah, like cv control over most of what you mentioned like this cassette based module. That was like, oh the module
I do remember that. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I think only five ever came out. Yeah, something. Yeah, I saw one pop up used once on
Uh on the wiggler. Yeah, and I was like, whoa someone actually had one of these. Um
Yeah, I for similar in size to that maybe
No, it's it's like kind of flat in the square
You know, like it definitely looks more like a like a
Pulsar type of design. You know module. Oh, okay. Yeah. Yeah, it's semi modular though. Like it has cv inputs
Uh, is there any kind of eta on this because I kind of want one now
So is it now? No, Greg is it now? It's not what about now
Fine gear announced at 13 aiming for it to be done by the end of summer
They're having some mechanical speed stability issues that they're still ironing out
And they estimate it'll be around a thousand euro
So that's a lot of praise right? Yeah, that I even though just 10 minutes goes complaining about price
I'd be willing to spend that much for something bonkers like that. That sounds really cool. They can deliver that
Yeah, stereo and it's cvable, you know, and you're getting like multiple
Effects and it's a yeah, it's steep
It also feels like you're kind of buying a pinball machine where like yeah, you're about to like get in a lot of mechanical problems
Let me just pull up a picture for you. Oh, this is not even though our listeners cannot uh, I'll just grab visual eyes
Yeah, let me
fine gear
dirt
Mike wow great
That fingernail polish. It's pretty bad. What the fuck it's been a month
You knew you were having guests
To my hair is a mess today. My fingernail polish is fucking nice
Just deal with it
So there's a picture of the the tape
Compartment, so that's cool. Yeah, that gives you a better sense of like how it looks. Yeah, and the scale that is pretty big
Damn, that looks awesome. Yeah, a lot of controls and of course a preamp
Also going into the tip. So I imagine you can get some pretty good saturation of it. I hope
They didn't really have any sound demos because of the complications that they're working through
This is more just a prototype show off
But yeah, I I for one I'm excited to hear how it actually sounds
It's the company again fine gear fine gear. Yeah, never heard of them before
They have my attention now
So what else have they made that now that now that i'm interested in them?
What else did they make that there was something else of similar size and shape it was called dirt
um
It was dirt something
But it was like similar thing, but instead of a tape delay. It was a spring verb. Oh, okay
Cool. Yeah, it totally caught me by surprise. You know me like I was scrolling through shit like the
endorphins ghost and going and then
Stumbled upon that and I was like, oh, I love the idea of having that we have here that relationship between cv and sort of mechanical
Is really such a cool idea. It's not the only thing that was debuted like that. Also. There was the motor synth
Oh, right. Yeah, shown off to I forget the name
Forget that too. Yeah, but it seems short lived or at least had its blip and then was coming on
They're hyping it up. Yeah, that's super boost again. Yeah, but I think which divine has one and he's done a couple things
But I knew I wouldn't be getting one. It's like a cool concept. I have no
So we'll do gimmicky
Yeah, they need the dust collector too. I remember that's that's it's a collector. Yes. Thank you
Yeah, remember that because I remember like in the enclosure. I was like, oh, that looks nice
It's cool. It's nice to see someone do something very different like that
It was only five 30
Oh
It's pretty good. Yeah, so
Fine gear if you're listening or anyone out there got that got that connect
Put a good word for the sisex dumpster crew
We want to get our hands on it even a broken one. Yeah, even one that doesn't
Work right we're cool with that. Yeah, we'll put an asterisk beside the our review
Yeah, we'll do an in-depth review to our millions of listeners
Millions don't look into it, but we have a million. Yes, there's millions of us
Yes
Pay no attention to the fact that all the IP addresses go to a Russian bot form
But we have millions of millions
um
Nick do you have anything for super booth?
Yeah
Precious little from super booth. I did not I would admit I didn't pay attention to it all that much
Really?
Because I don't even think the effects aid pro was like announced and that was like
That was like a ninja release ninja. Yeah, it was a little a little bit after that. Yeah
my list
My list has a couple more things on it. I don't know if we want to get into them
um
We were talking about kick drums and parameters thereof
This was not something I was super excited about personally, but it was weird to see
It pop up on a lot of people's lists and people seem very excited about it
Um, so I figured it was worth mentioning the na Bula
kick-ain
Kick-ain. Oh, yeah, kick-ain. Kick-ain. There are kids for that too. I don't know. That'd be cool for me
In looking at the maybe I'm thinking about the kick drum one, but go ahead
um, but uh
999 sounding a lot of parameters and arguments
Um, but what I thought was the most interesting about it and worthy of sort of talking about was it has a built-in sidechain compressor
Is and so you could take these sort of audio in
Um, they make the poly cinematic poly voice thing. I think so. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. No, I know which one
Um, and the compressor itself has multiple options. They have sort of a normal one and then these two
um
spectral
uh sidechain compression, so it's not just based on level. Um, it does
Based on the spectrum of frequencies coming in it'll do uh compression based on that
Honestly, this sounds didn't blow me away. It sounds a little
What you would expect that you know, I I don't know maybe I'm just
Doesn't make gabber kick-steve
Kinda it makes it makes it they're real clean. There's a little there's a little there's a snap or um
it's a world click argument ransient
It
It was bassy. It honestly that part was a little
I
A little undercooked. I thought at least from the demos that they were showing
For me, I would need and I think all of us would probably want to process the shit out of it when it came out
But the idea of having a sort of um built-in sidechain compressor. Yeah, I would run through a ghost
So you would run through a ghost. Yeah, and then that would make it sound give it that angi wang hip-hop flavor
Oh
Holy shit, that's the next one hip-hop flavor
Oh god
Um, but I mean I might give it another look when it's actually available. Yeah, but um really I just thought was worthy. Yeah on this
Uh again like you were sort of mentioning earlier. No ETA. No price. I couldn't find anything about it. Um
nebulous vaporware exactly
Theme of this year's super that I'm gonna go on with the themes. Oh, I've I've got one actually
It's not vaporware. I have which is a cubit aurora. Oh, yeah, which was announced at super booth
I just realized yeah something I was extremely excited for and have yet to get yeah
It's um cool. I was maybe drunk when I purchased it on apple pay on my phone, which is really fucking evil
Um
But yeah, it was announced at super booth and it was kind of intended to be like a reverb type effect
Which I would think that is not really get it. That's all with a crazy light show
Oh, yeah, it's beautiful
Like if you like dark things with kind of psychedelic lights behind them like I think we all do um, it's a gorgeous module on the rack
And it's even got this like
Amazing back panel that covers the electronics that is translucent partially that has like this mountain scene
That the led shine through and you get a little enamel pin of this graphic of this mountain scene too
It's like really like oh, it's cool. Oh weird thing. I got ideas. I'll hold it up and show you too
But it's like executed very well. Um to be honest at first. I was like
It's a spectral vocoder basically that does like reverby type stuff and that has like something I enjoy very much
Yeah
Some abstracted controls like warp and like time and time is kind of like decay a little bit but it's more like
I plagued with all it has modes do it has like different quality modes, which I didn't like any of the lower quality
I really like higher one and almost which there was another one that was like even higher
FFT window that was even more
um
Accurate or whatever you want to call it but with the last time but um
It always adds like if you use it sparingly it adds this really nice like kind of overtone quality to most sounds
You can find like kind of a sweet spot
and it kind of like I can see why somebody would call it a reverb kind of effect because you can get things that sound like
A shimmer effect like kind of these big sounds, but it's nothing like that sounds like a room or anything to me sure
Um, and it really tight values like shorter time values or whatever that upper right knob is that kind of makes it less decay
Um, it gets really interesting and you can get some nice flavors on like percussion and stuff like that
Which I'm sure you'd probably want to try with
My main application
Um, so I really like it at first. I was like too spectrally. I kept getting like that FFT sound like remember
DTBLK effects that plug-in. Yeah, which I really love actually and I kind of wish like they actually brought it back and that it still
Run very well. Um, but there were moments of it that got flavors that I liked like that and there was like
The pitch knob or like the knob at the top that changes like the pitch type artifact can be like a bit too much sometimes
But it's definitely something where I like it. It's beautiful
I didn't know what I was kind of asking for when I got it
I didn't have much expectation, but I'm always able to seem like to find like kind of an overtone, especially on like
Patty or like other type sounds that are longer duration that I'm like, oh, it sounds better with that or like
Confines something to layer on top of it that it's a little more interesting and trippy to me
Um
And it's full stereo. Um, it's oh nice. Yeah, it sounds really good
Um, I haven't even touched the shift button yet. So everything behind the shift menu the other knobs
I haven't even tried yet. So I'm still like kind of getting used to it, but I'm really enjoying
So what are the uh, the modulation input parameters? Like what can you have? Rogerlyn. Oh really
Most of the I have the qubit cord to the v2 and I actually like really fucking like that module a lot
And uh, one thing they do is they always generally have CV over everything and they always have like a shift button
Mix you get control over the wet dry, which is awesome. Oh, yeah, there's a reverse mode and a freeze mode
Really like freeze to be able to like catch these little kind of tones
Um
It's kind of similar to like beads freeze in a way. Um, where you're kind of like just like strapping this little bit of
Spectral energy or whatever like clouds
Um, but it sounds a little better a little more high-fi sounds very high-fi in ways
The main reason why I haven't bought one yet like i'm really curious about it, but I do have multiple
Monsumes currently that I use the spectral hidden mode with a lot
And I was like, do I need something else to do that or can you know?
Literally use the module and thought like I wondered how you would like it
Knowing how much you like the spectral shit. Yeah clouds in monsoon. Love it
Yeah, and like the reverse was very subtle which I think is just like reversing the buffer
and then the interesting controls were reflect in atmosphere and atmosphere is like a drastic change to whatever's going on and like
The atmosphere is hard to describe. It's like the almost room you're in and like the flavor it has or something like that or like what
Uh, it's it is hard to describe some of these. That's why they're named like kind of weirdly
Um blur was interesting to it. Just kind of like smudges
The fft a little more. It's kind of like a filtering effect, but we're just like smudgy fft stuff and it's cool
Um, it's definitely not something I'd use all the time and not crucial at all
But I'm so far like really liking it as far as it's very unique
Nothing that I've heard is like it except maybe the pan harmonium kind of from some things
I've heard like kind of similar in principle, but though very different and like application
Um
Yeah, at first I got it and I was like, oh shit. I fucked up
This is too specterly for me
But it was all about like toning it down a little and finding those sweet spots that were a little more subtle
I think this is one effect that like I probably wouldn't keep it 100
percent wet
Or you're like that wet ever right more of just like kind of a shadow behind things a ghost if you will
Brought to you by Andrew one
But yeah, it's cool
Nice, nice. I don't know how I'll feel about it in six months. Yeah, it's one of those things for two words
Like, oh, maybe I just don't want this anymore. Well, you get bored of it. We'll do I'll take it off your hands
Give it a shot put it through its pace. It didn't look like it was taking up a lot of space
It looked like one of their tidier modules. It's not too big. I think it was like 12 or 14
Right. I mean they they have some they have some big eyes
Yeah, I'm glad to hear that like you're getting a lot of interesting stuff out without having to dip into like, you know
The shift menu and shit like that. That's one thing that bothered me a lot about databender
Like I liked databender
Conceptually, but I kind of wish it was bigger and didn't have
All these different color-coded modes and things to try to remember and same with the
Filter slash comb delay that they released
The fuck was that? I don't know. I had one. I can't remember the name
Yeah
Fracture
Was that it? No, that's the WMD one. Now. I'm gonna have to look this up. Yeah, stand by listeners
It was the prism
Yeah, it had some stuff behind the scenes too, which you had to remember the color codes for and it just kind of annoyed me
You don't like color codes. I remember that actually I love color codes
That's how I base my life performances, but having to remember them and annoys me
Well, that's the make noise thing that you hated because it was fun or gene morphogen
Damn it. It was all color codes
Yeah, well that wasn't just color codes
It was key presses and combos and all this shit. I had like a fuck ton of functionality like hidden behind two buttons
You know, it was like purple half yellow and it was that meant something different. Yeah. Yeah
That was the the speed slash
Pitch mode if I recall you see you seem it's a little bitter
You look a little like I wanted to love that module. I still do it does things that I
Have to use other things to try to do, you know what I mean?
And it would be more convenient to use a morphogen if I jived with that
Got awful interface in my opinion. Yeah, I don't know but I digress. I didn't mean to bring out something so traumatic
I saw a video somebody doing something with the other day in comparison to something else. I was like, oh, that's cool
Like I don't want to suffer through that
Exactly
I'm glad some people jive with it. Yeah, I know
So my list is dwindling at this point
I've got a couple honorable mentions, but nothing uh, nothing. I really want to get too deep into
I have the yach sak
Hayach zak zak zak?
zak zak
Sofia chaos devices chaos devices. Um, the sofia
I don't need it, but it did make some interesting sounds as a is a big old honkin
Complex analog oscillator. Oh, oh yeah, oh, yeah, no dessa size
Yeah, and it sounds amazing like the sounds that they were getting out of you know
Just having a bunch of different modulations a bunch of these different sort of oscillators
I think I kept coming back to when I was listening to the demos and their presentation and
It's always sounded musical it didn't I mean I'm sure you can make
Sound wonky and just sort of textury
Um, but everything just felt all the demos and everything it felt harmonic all the time
Um in this way that was sort of appealing. I can't imagine getting it. It's honking big thing
Um, I'm on board with a lot of what chaos devices is is doing
Um, and in fact I now that I've got the two mosque fuzz working in tandem
I'm really interested in taking a deeper dive into that leap knits
Binary system that they have yeah, yeah, it's so interesting. It's weird beast
It's very weird. I don't feel like I fully have my head wrapped around it
But they keep adding modules to it like it was started out with it was just the dress now
But now it's the lip-sk the Jenna and the urnfit
Like they keep adding to this ecosystem and the mosqueba can tie into it and actually generate
Um, you know the digital binary data that this system uses
um
so
Some point in the near future. I really
Want to dive into that and just kind of figure out what it is and how to take advantage of it
Yeah, you should if anybody's gonna figure that out or get into it. It would be you
It's definitely caught my attention. So I mean, I'm
You know at some point I may be getting perilously close to a chaos devices
full fucking system like
Chaos devices if you hear if you're out there listening
And you need someone to qa your uh your shit
Um just him. Yeah, give him a ball. I'm on board. Um, yeah
I just I really like what they're doing in this and the sofia. I think
it seemed like it was a
if I wasn't already sort of
Neck deep and oscillators already
Um, I would definitely be definitely be checking this out. I totally forgot they even announced an oscillator
I just remember they announced the two different
Effects modules the one being the frequency shifter that I forget the name of but it caught my eye at the time
And I was you know digging through all the super booth announcements
Because I like me some frequency shifting. I do
I have like 16 filters
Yeah, holy shit. Wow bill like two last week. Oh nice
The other thing on my list is actually a filter. Oh, yeah, okay. It's not super booth. It's not
Do you want a 17th? Yeah
this one actually
I feel bad because
I have nothing but good things to say about the filter. I'm about to
We'll get through super booth first and then we can go and circle. I already want this filter
Um, but yeah, so if he uh that was something that I
I don't know. It may be one of those things weren't actually available. It will be difficult for me to
resist, you know, it's it's
It sounded it was making a lot of sounds that were
Like, oh, I wish I had made that like
That area of fucked up but still musical
Um, I really dug it so time to flip some oscillators
What the fuck am I?
Enough. I like all the ones I have. I don't know
I forget what you have a lot of digital ones. I got the bucla. What? I got the bucla from tip top. I got the
quad operator. Yeah, plats. Yeah
I can get rid of the graphic vco that would make some room
Pissed it because you got you got her piston Honda. I'm gonna say you got the piston
So it's just a really graphic vco. Oh, yeah, you could buy another case
Or just buy another case. I mean that that's inevitable. Yeah, I should just stop
I'm saying dump the plats dump the
graphic vco
Think of this because you already got that digital territory covered. I do stuff. Yeah, you need a nice analog
Sophia in there. Yeah sold you fucking solve this problem. Go through your gristleizer. Yeah, I can hear it in my head already
Well, I just turned on a dime. I went from I may not get it to I'm probably gonna go home and pre-order thanks
Wow success
I'm I should not have brought that up
But what filter should I buy?
We don't have super booth
The Pauli and play
which
It's kind of like on its own. We don't need to wrap that in the super booth shit. We can discuss that
on its own
Go into this filter
Disappointed if you don't talk about it. So the filter I want to talk about is
A filter of crows
From Pittsburgh modular never heard of them yet. Well Pittsburgh is a city. It's in Pennsylvania the United States of america
Where the shirt um it's a shit hole
Don't come here. That's too fucking high already. Oh, you the workers. Yeah
Any influencers stay out
Um a big big t-shirt just as any influencer staff
I would wear that. Yeah, I know you would
Um, so this is another one of the experimental modules they did
Um, this is like the new series. It was released alongside the wolf
Which is a preamp slash vca that they released and the bat
Which is a filter and vca need bill home more fine. Neither of them really caught my eye filter of crows though
Um, it's a combination of the crows preamp that they released a while ago and then just basically fell off
That's what that was preamp. Yeah, oh, um, and what it is is it goes up to 75 times gain
But still somehow sounds clean like it doesn't just go off the rails
um
So it has that on and off you can turn on and off
Um that preamp going in to
Basically the update of their original filter. Okay. Um, and it's multi mode and each of them each of the modes high pass
spam pass and low pass, um, can be toggle on and off and it's all process and serial. I mean in parallel parallel and
CV for the residents, uh, the residents and the filter cutoff
if that was it, I'd probably be
Like lukewarm. I probably wouldn't even bring it up. It's something I just bought and didn't even mention, you know, like it's just
It would be exciting to get the crow that crow preamp. That was just basically unattainable
Staring randomly exactly rip
What's what blew my mind though is the stability parameter
So when you turn it on or when you have it in stable mode, the it doesn't self oscillate
It's the the resonance is stable
When you turn this off when you basically let it go up it falls apart
In the most amazing way possible
Is it self oscillates, but it's dictated based on the value of the of the residents and the filter combination
There are parts of
As you're like sweeping between the residents where it stops making sound
It completely just the entire circuit just disintegrates. It is
wild
And it's all done like all of this sort of like processing all of this sort of like what it's doing
Is all in real time. So as you're sweeping with it the residents and the filter cutoff
it's
Going between these different modes and it's going through all the stuff and it responds to cv accordingly
Kind of reminds me of like a plague bearer a little bit. Yeah
And in fact there are like, you know, there's these spots where it like cuts out
As you're sending cv you can actually try to send cv to get that effect
And like the little edges like right before it cuts off
Just squeal and squelch
But like nothing ever has that sort of um like that joe mox m resonators
What I always go back to where it was like
Oh, this was this sounded really cool, but the gain just went up
50 decibels everything is still relatively controlled. So even when you have
The crow preamp cranked up to 75x
This weird stability turned off and it's just going from like dead to squelch to like
Back to smooth. It's just like a rumbling self-oscillating filter
All of it is even keel like all of it's still usable. Like this is it's fucking fantastic
I love it as like
And you can also just like turn off the preamp turn stability back on and just use it as
Their old their nice old filter like it does really simple stuff simple
But then you can just make it just be this
Absolutely bonkers machine. Oh, it's cool. You're selling me on this. Yeah. Yeah, I mean I haven't heard the demos or anything
um
But they have what you're describing kind of reminds me what I used to do with like a quad plague bear
So with cv going in and out of like the dead zones and bringing it into like squelch territory very similar to making it just become like uh, you know
Uh, just like the living creature. That's very similar
Has that vibe of like as you're moving between these different states
Things are the circuit sort of coming alive and then just can't handle it anymore and just vomit in front of you
X game you said yes
4 hp or something. It's like small, right?
Um, it's made 10 maybe okay. It's the original crow was okay the original original
This is a little bit bigger, but it's nowhere near as big as the original filter that they had
Um, it's yeah, it does not take up a lot of room which was it like 220. I think okay
It was not expensive either and I think it's still available
Unlike those sort of early experiment ones that you know
Are not they're not available anymore and it's funny because I went and talked I went and picked it up
From bittsburgh modular and I was talking to okay. I actually have one now. Oh, yeah. Yeah. I've had it. Yeah, I've had it for yeah, that was
um
had it for
Oh, basically the day it came out. I basically like I remember saying you were going to the shop and yeah
I couldn't remember what it was. It was good. Yeah. Yeah, it's it's organized. Well, it's not cramped
But it's not taking up a lot of room
Um, it's a little hard to read but honestly it's for like it's in
Res CV filter cutoff CV helped what if you like filter slow little switches? Oh little switches are the modes
So you can have high passes
Yeah, and then you can have you select which ones are on and it's all in parallel
Um, so even doing things like turning the low pass off and just having high pass and
Banned pass and fucking with that just adds
Just absurd character to just otherwise boring signals
Um, but yeah, I went into um, I mean there's no reason for them to ship it
They're a couple miles away and I went and I was talking to perry
um, it was just
A great human being. Yeah, I showed perry
Yeah, seriously, uh
And like showed me around the shop and you made that offhand comment. I'm like, oh, yeah
Like I was really excited because the crow felt that original crow was going for like absurd prices on reverb
And he's like, yeah, we just found out about that like they hadn't seen that this like
Second like the like the the secondary market. Hmm for their limited
And they're like that's not why we would that's not why we did this it was not to create this sort of like boutique artificial scarcity
It doesn't benefit them. Yeah, they're just like we just didn't think a lot of people would want it
If more people want it will just make more, you know, like it was not I was a little put off by like the like
Well, fuck. I'm not paying $900 for a hundred dollar module. Yeah, like I
I don't know why in my head I was blaming them for this scarcity like, you know, but I'm like, no
They just didn't know they didn't know that people were gonna want it and they're like, yeah, people want more
We'll just make more like um, which I think is great. If you go to their site now
That's all it is and stuff like this like there
There are other module line is they don't have anything else. They're not doing they're like
Like I think we even at one point called them like the us dope for yeah, they're not really doing anymore
Because I think they probably realize that manufacturing isn't the most fun
And that's why they do all that too with create an audio now
I think they just make designs for create audio too
Because it's a lot easier to sell designs than it is to like have to
Get parts anymore and like be a manufacturer as a fucking nightmare. Absolutely. I'm one of strange coincidence that
You know a business called Pittsburgh modular happened to be in Pittsburgh
Still bends my mind. I think that really worked out in their favor
It did yeah
They even spelled it correctly with the h yeah, that would have been embarrassing if they they spelled it like a normal common faux pas
Yeah, it is
From outsiders
So yeah, honestly, nothing but good things to say I think it's
I love that it does the simple stuff simple
And is also a bonkers
Filtron top of that come into it. I'll have to check this out more
And the other stuff like I said, I can't do a 303 to
Is that like was that your three S right? Yeah
It's more like
So listeners right in right in and tell us we thought was the better 303 Nick let's hear yours again
Greg terrible
All right, that's that's what those are your choices listeners, uh, and whoever, um
Rights us the best essay we'll get a um, I don't know. What do we even have a free koozie free acid line?
Oh wait, I just gave it away
A free andrew one beatbox acid line
Oh, we'll put his name on it for you
That's basically the end of my list greg you said, uh, well nick was there anything on your list? Oh
Complete overhaul of mixing and sequencing for me, which I don't have to get into and super depth
But yeah, I do want to talk about the frappe tools
Creative mixer whatever the fuck is it called crap tools? I got the quad stereo channel craptals
Frappe rules. I seriously heard crap crap tools crap tools. I heard fat tools fat tools
different
Um
But yeah, I actually
After live set prep for which played those two sets or tried to play two and the second one couldn't
um
Sat back in my studio and sat down to like use the modular and I was like wow
This cosmic sounds fucking broken to me
And it was like I love the cosmos. I don't know how I didn't notice this it may actually be broken to some extent
Sorry person. I sold it to you already. Um
But even with the
Drive off I was just noticing this noise over tone for some reason like I hadn't sat down on my monitors for a while and I was like
unacceptable
um
started looking at mixers
Saw the frappe tools quad stereo channel because I was like oh I need all this stereo shit
I quote unquote don't want to pay for wm-d performance mixer even though I spent exactly that amount to get where I am with the
frappe tools
Um, but I'm not mad at that actually thin they because it doesn't have as many stereo inputs the wm-d has like eight
And then two mono or something like that, which is pretty sweet and vca's on those
But the frappe tools has like four channels that you get
But it's actually a little more than that because you can get cv
Um on the effect sense, which is cool
You get it on one on each end on the quad stereo channel because of panel space
But then I got the group
Module that connects to the master module. So with this frappe tool shit
There's always a channel a group and a master
What I didn't figure out at first because their manual is thorough
But really confusing is that you need a group channel to connect this master module
And I was like, oh, I just want two more stereo ends. I want to add another channel. How do I do that?
I realized this group does that because it's super flexible
And the group is just like say take any of these output channels like these four that I got in this quad stereo channel
And it will sum them all
In stereo and let you have another effect send on the group and that's fully automated
And so you actually can use the effect send out
On the quad stereo channel because it's a little mixer and on this group also
Um, but the one, you know affects the um group itself and the other one individual channels
But you don't get as much cv
But you get two effects ends with mono out stereo returns under this group channel
Which is the thing that saves me two channels question in the room. I have a question. How do you specify a group?
Oh, uh group is just a thing that aggregates channels
So it's actually only one type of module you can get and then you can actually have multiple groups
Um into this master channel. So you're gonna have a total of 128 channels if you want
Holy shit if you buy enough of these things
Um, so I just wanted the quad at first and that worked and that had its own master out
Then I was like, oh just like another to get rid of like somewhere to put my effects returns would save me would be perfect
That's when I realized the group was out there
But like it was really hard to get and so I saw somebody on reverb had both of these modules used in california
This master channel the older skinnier one that doesn't have the quarter inch outs and just has eighth which is totally fine
Um, and then this other group
So I got those two because they were like cheaper and available and it was the only way to get them
And this shit sounds fucking great. It is the nicest mixer i've ever heard in euro rack by far
Um, can't get the thing to fucking crackle in any way like it's just
Sounds fucking dead on this also this um master output has a headphone
output um dedicated which was also attractive to me because I was using like the
Intel gel 7u with the converter and i'm like there's no good level control and it's also the master and i was like it would be cool to just have
headphone out and um
That sounds really cool too and having two cv controlled effects sends
Um with returns has been like
fucking mind but for me um it's i'm doing all this shit with effects that I wasn't doing before because I have the cv controller of the ox outputs
Um, you can cv the returns too and just use those as dedicated you can say
I don't want to return anything here. I'm just going to use you as a stereo channel
And they have vca's on them as well. So those are stereo vca's if you want them to be because you can control the level of the return coming in and the ox coming out
So it's like really flexible
And this quad stereo channel each channel has its own vca input too
So kind of like the wmd performance mixer
And you can just you know put an oscillator in stick and envelope and like use this to output a sound and have an effect on it
Now it's not generally how I roll because I want to then like route that through something else and then you'd have to like
There's no direct outs on this mixer. Um
Which is fine by me, but like it's doing exactly what I wanted as far as getting the mix together
Um the mute buttons are located like in the perfect spot
It's like right below the knob and you look at it. You're like, oh, that's kind of dumb
And then you use it and you're like, oh, it's the fucking perfect spot. It's like right there. There's nothing that can get in the way of it
um
I was I think you mentioned it too like that frapp tool shit. It looks confusing as fuck when you see that. I was like, what is this
It's a colorful. It knows a mixer. There are lines going everywhere. It's like a math not clear
Yeah, yeah
If you look they have like a math's called the foulest tree or something like that and it's like
Crazy it looks intimidating, but like this is one thing where you sit down in five minutes
It's like oh it's just two effects sins in a fucking pan
The cool thing is um, you've got stereo channels you there's a switch so you can change it from pan to cross fade
So you can use those stereo channels as two mono inputs so you can cross fade an oscillator or you can just have two mono inputs
Um, especially if you don't need the vc
Yeah, and that's when I realized like oh shit. This is like a very flexible fucking mixer because the way they have it said
I like voltage controlled caters. Yeah voltage controlled faders voltage control. How's the same?
Is it like
negative five to plus five? I think I think it's
Oh god. I don't remember. I think it's bipolar
Plus five. I think that's what it is as it should be. Yeah, no, it definitely didn't
I suppose I didn't have to rectify anything to get it to like work. Oh really anything like that
Oh
Sounds fantastic as I said that was the thing that was most impressive like so far like
Even though my italicel seven you on the output i've got to like
Move it back and forth a few times before I play so I can get it to not crackle and like my cause mix
Um wasn't too bad
But other mixers that I've had have been like really crackly and shitty like that befaco
St mix those are garbage. Um those pots are garbage on those. They just don't work all of them are fucked up
But this was like perfect. Um, it's actually kind of a small size. Actually in the end
I didn't need the master out that has the headphone
I like the headphone, but that's the part that I could kind of skip. Um because the other ones have stereo outs anyway
It's like another level control. Oh, the master gives you another stereo input, but it's on like an eight-inch stereo
It's just like this thing like oh if you went in live, I would just run my rhythm into that
Yeah, because it's got its own level control. Um
So it kind of hit like all the boxes of what I was looking for from mixing
Does it have like a meter like a visual indicator?
It's got a beautiful meter on the master one, but it's also got meters on the
stereo outs of the group and the quad stereo channel and it's got meter LEDs on the vca's
and meter LEDs on the
What are they're out the ox out? So it's actually the one module I've used where it's like oh, I actually
Know where all my levels are and I know where to change them. I'm like oh that vca's too hot
Like this is like it's been really nice. Um because normally you just get like maybe
Um an led that's the brightness of the led to give you an indicator
Um, and you have to use your outboard mixer
To figure out what the actual level was if it was too hot like this is like they nailed that in this regard
So it's cool and like it all chains together with like um
IDE cables behind it like you know, yeah power cables. So it's it's pretty slick the way they did it
Um
I'm impressed. I don't want any more of it. I could see adding another single stereo channel that they make if I need that
No, I'm just didn't anything else. They make the brenzo, which is the dual oscillator. They make looks really cool
But it's huge. Um, and it's apparently awesome
And I turned out it turns out like some people would just like love their gear cult style
Like this is like the new bucla. I like like a few people i've seen like that
eardrill dude cbm on
um mod wiggler
Has said like yeah, I love this stuff just as much as bucla and he's got a bunch of it
always actually
Really into the demos i've heard of their spectral processor that I call the fumana. Yeah. Yeah
One one really bad. It looks amazing. But yeah, it's like 900 bucks. Yeah, it's not cheap
The spotnik was cheaper and kind of scratches that it's room but the fumana looks fucking cool
It does like all this shit. I bet sounds amazing based on how this mixer is. I bet everything they make sounds fucking great
Yeah, and it's got this beautiful kind of like
Shitty almost purple color panel and I really like it very nice like
Kind of shitty purple mixers. Well, they're really good mixers that have like a kind of shitty purple
But I got rid of the vortices also
Because after that it was just like, okay. This is way too much mixing
Yeah, it just seemed ridiculous and I just never use it. Yeah the vortices
I still have oh, yeah. Yeah, I'm kind of falling out of favor with it though
You the og right not the og. Yeah, not the high five still low five
but like the amount of
Sends and ins and outs that it has has always been good to me and like you're saying like, you know
There's so many shitty sounding mixers out there
Um or ones that just crackle or do strange things or have strange noise floors the vortices
Has always been pretty solid for me. It's just the fact that like
Um, it's my only mixer currently and then you know everything you put into it kind of it gives that low five flavor
Which I don't always want right. That was mine. Right. Yeah, and also I have never had any
need
To lower the volume of the inputs on that thing right like you kind of want it to be at max volume
Because that's when it sounds the best. Yeah, but you kind of need like a mixer after that. I ran into that too. You know, I mean
Yeah, exactly. It's like I always have it cranked up. I'm like, okay
That's where these channels sound best, but now I need to lower the overall volume
You know what I mean? So it's like yeah, it's it's not a good
Stand-alone mixer. It like needs to be used with other mixers
Still just draws me nuts to the different mono and the stereo mixer levels or different types of knobs
But it uses the other knob for the pan and it's just like I color-coated mine
So it is smart. I did the same on the cosmos too because oh, yeah
I kept writing into that with the cosmos. I put the trimmer toppers on the ox ends on the cosmos
Yep, go to the person getting that getting those off if you want to it's impossible
Two pieces of posse you really fuck this person
It's a rope you're getting these fucked up knobs. Did you shit it at two?
I shipped it to them on time before they left the country and they gave me five stars feedback
Wow, but you can't take that back can't take back five stars feedback on reverb. No takes these backses. No
No, it is fine. I was probably being really anal and picky like no the cosmos is noisy
It is I don't know how I didn't really hear it before I think I was just trying to do something clean for once
I was like, honestly, I was actually surprised that you liked it as much when you go
Yeah, because like I got it and I noticed it was noisy
But I was using it more or less like a stereo mixing distortion effects not so much as just a standard mixer
And I was like, yeah, surprised to hear that like you were okay
I was like, okay, maybe he's making some grimy stuff, but like yeah, there's definitely it's hard to get around
Sort of like the fortices like it's it's an effects mixer. You know what I mean
It is not in my opinion at least it's adding carot
But there was a thing I got it and it was the first mixer I had that like nailed it feature-wise
So I was like, oh, this is like everything I want kind of and then I liked the master output saturation a lot
Absolutely
And I'll miss that actually I would like to buy that just as a stereo processor with just those two sliders
100% I agree
And that would actually satisfy it for me because that usually sounded really good especially live
Um, that sounded good
I miss mine as well. I swapped it out for the vortices because I didn't have enough rock space
It's time for like, you know two mixers, but I wanted more stereo sends and stuff like I was like, well
I think the cosmic's got to go gonna go with the vortices, but now I kind of wish I had both
But the wrap tool is like pretty much close to like the nicest mixer I've ever heard period
Yeah, just how hard how
Do you feedback that shit yet? No input. Oh, yeah. Yeah, yeah
Actually, I noticed because it does some like cancellation kind of or something with feedback
Because I was just feeding you know typical like I'll take the aux end and feed it back to itself kind of thing
Um, it would like cancel and I was like, oh, it's like we face cancellation. Yeah, I think so
I feel like I made a note to like go back to that but at the point I was just working on a thing
Yeah saturates nicely when you drive it to like good shit
Wow, yeah, they killed it
Is this um
difficult to find the quad stereo channel is easy to find and actually I would say that that's the only one you really need
Um
They designed it so that was standalone and I think that was smart because really that's the only like it's nice to have the other
stereo shit now the
um the ability to do
The cb controlled sends on everything on that buster that grouping of everything
But I could get rid of those two and still be just as happy not sure
It's very intriguing. Yeah, it's good shit
Greg
Greg is there something Greg is there something you wanted to talk about Greg? That's me Greg. That's me
Is there something you want to talk about me?
Uh, that is you I did want to mention the poly and play
What about it because
At first I was very indifferent to it same. I
I don't I'm gonna call bullshit. I'm pulling a card. Oh, you're you were not just indifferent
Uh, yeah, you gave it you gave it some shit. I was oh, yeah. I was yeah. I think we all were I think we all did
I'm playing my uh
Your your true feelings. So we'll change your mind because I have um
Not really revisited this in all I see uh influencers
Oh my god. Was it Andrew hollang? It was not uh, it was Ben Jordan
I do love Ben Jordan. He posted a cool little artistic creative video. He did a cross-country drive
He had a go-to meeting on the west coast he drove from like
Florida
California and back and he decided he was just going to bring
the poly and play which he got
You know to to demo
Just it and no like synth or anything outside just the play just the play just the play
That's bold
um
And he was doing field recording to get his sample material like it stops that he made along the way
I
Don't think he ever specified if he recorded it into the play. I don't remember if the play has recording capabilities or a microphone or anything
I I'm gonna assume he used like a field recorder and then just jumped it in there. I think so but either way like that
Yeah, that was his only piece of gear that he took with him. Um
And when the video you know when he first
Started it. I was still skeptical of the play and I was still skeptical of this video. I'm like, okay, whatever
This is just him chilling for this piece of gear
I will step in and say we've seen him do that in the past. Yeah, with that empress
Yes, um, that was the thing that I was like, oh, this is this is painful to watch
Yeah, like going out on the desert. Yeah, and he was on the desert and it was just I hated that video
Yeah, that was that was just like such a bladen attempt of trying to turn a
Product that was kind of boring into I don't know dramatic and and and spiritual
The same with this one, but he sold me on it this time around right. Um, so he learned the mistakes
From the previous one visually for sure like he went to like abandoned malls
And like oil drills in the middle of the desert field like the type of visuals that like I like to see
Especially on road trips and I went there and he just like recorded sounds and then made some like lo-fi
Idmish beats using the sounds and with the stuff
Uh within the play. Mm-hmm. And I was like, you know, it's kind of cool
Like I can see the usefulness of this, you know in this application being like a stripped down
You know piece of gear, but at the same time I was like I still don't need another group box
Especially one that looks like a monom on crack or some mutant variation of the tracker
Which I already very much like so I'm like, why do I need to play? Yeah
If I like the tracker
But he started to show off
Later in the video when he got past the artistic visual stuff
Um a more slightly technical overview and showed off that it has
a lot of like generative functions and some of the
Magic that the tracker has and more when it comes to generating sequences or events
Or probability and things like that and I was like, okay. Now you're getting me here
Like the play won't be out for months and months. Oh no shit. Yeah, so they're just like for some reason polyend is like
All gas no breaks with the marketing hype right now. You know what I mean? Like weird
Yeah, and it's it's weird to see so many influencers get this thing and like hyping it up
So far in advance and you know it kind of turned me off to it a bit too, but like yeah the ben jorin video
Broke through that, uh, you know a version that I had got me to pay attention to it
So then I watched some of the other videos
Lou pops and stuff like that and I'm like, okay, no this thing is
I'm starting to see the usefulness of it for sure and so when you're saying generative
Like where is it is it generating in in sequences and generation modulation? Like where's where are you getting that sort of with?
sequencing and probability, okay and
Microsteps stutters things like that it had it can do some of the events that you can do in the tracker
Right some of the effects events
with like
You know stutter steps and fade in fade outs those type of things and
Things that are fucking tedious to do in a doll
Things that are tedious to do or impossible to do on a lot of your vanilla
Sequencers, you know what I mean?
Which is one of the things that made the tracker stand out to me
Right, but a lot of that stuff in the tracker can be then sent out as midi
Which you can in this as well. So then what again going back to your original point. Why do I want this over?
A tracker I mean you kind of stepped on my question, but yeah, that's exactly my question
um
Mainly because you're not hard stuck into the vertical tracking
Style of sequencing which you know you can turn that sideways, right? Yes. Okay, which is what you're doing
but no, it gives you a nice like
easy
Interface that you can punch things into on the side like you have all your presets and stuff on the right
Uh, with you know, the I think it's the last four
Of the buttons on that grid and then beside that, you know, you got your step sequences
It's
More visual where you can see everything. Yeah all at once, you know, I don't know
Definitely like xox style, which is done to death, but it seems like they added some interesting aspects to it
um
Kind of like what you see in like a deluge. Yeah. Yeah, that's what it's worth things. You know, I mean so it seems like it's a mix of
Uh like a tracker and a deluge
And that is exciting even like some of the seven oh seven thing
Yeah, I mean that's really exciting because I still use this shit out of my deluge
And I love it to death and I use a lot of
the that those sort of things especially with live because it adds a little bit of
Variety that is difficult to do
On the line record like do field recording with a deluge, correct? You can resample and you can do looping and you can
Uh just record live into it. I'm wondering it
I'm curious if that's what he did. Maybe he mentioned that and I missed it, but yeah like
his use of like the
Found sound
In his little demo. I'm curious if he was able to record that right into the play if so, then yeah, I think that would
I mean amazing blur the lines even more between that and a deluge. Yeah
Um some of the generative shit that was like well beyond what the tracker it is. It's doing some weird
You know like AI shit and I'm like, okay
First it seemed like a gimmick to me and like I like generative generative things, but not when it does it all
For me, you know, I mean I like coming up with the same complex change of generative events
I want control over what exactly it's going to end up doing even if I'm not controlling each piece
I want to set it in motion. Sure. That's the thing and it seemed to me like this might
Let you do that. That's cool. You know, I mean like you can control the level of
generative stuff that you want to do with each track
Um now are they going to go down the electron path of like
Not including that in the tracker so that it can be exclusive to play
I don't know that's no question really rad if I could get that in my tracker
Well, that's what brings me back to my initial aversion to this
Whole device in the first place was that like again as a fan of the tracker
I was not expecting polyen to be announcing a whole new device. I was expecting them to announce tracker version two
And I wanted to see things like, you know more generative things like that. I wanted to see stereo stereo sample
Processing I wanted to see
Um
There was another big one that that oh like a drum engine. Yeah, yeah, that'd be awesome
Unfortunately, I still don't think the play has I think this is strictly samples which is kind of like as far as I know
That's as far as I can tell it to yeah, it is it has no drum engine like no
It still doesn't seem that different from tracker. I like it doesn't I keep coming back to like this doesn't scream necessary
It's more like button grid driven, you know, it's a different path to the same
Yeah, okay
Or
Something that would accommodate a tracker or maybe it is for like people that are like I just didn't grok
The the tracker vertical scrolling thing. They want to get I had that discussion with my cousin. Yeah, he has a tracker
I you know, I convinced him get because he was turned off by the whole tracker, you know vertical sequencing thing at first too
He's a very hip-hop dude, you know, I mean
And he is trying to program a lot of hip-hop stuff on it and he does like he's a drummer
So he's in a finger drumming also and he says it's like near impossible for him to do
Certain things on those tiny ass buttons on the track. Sure. Yeah, but he said the play seems really
Catch his attention for that. He says it seems to be like like all the stuff that he likes in a tracker
But on a you know a much more drummer friendly interface. I'm like, yeah, I can see that
um
I don't do finger drumming. So I don't give a shit about that. Yeah, but
But the fact that you still can only manipulate
mono samples is kind of a deal breaker for me and the fact that there's no drum engine kind of blows my mind still because there's other competing
Trackers out there like the M8 and things like that that have yeah an FM drum engine
And it's like I kind of hate being stuck to just doing samples. So like I don't know the the play has my attention
But yeah, I hope that between now and when it comes out that they offer
The ability to drop stereo files in there
Yeah, and release like an FM drum machine of some sort of thing too is I don't really like the tracker effects
I think they're kind of shit like the actual audio. Yeah, the actual audio effects
I think the reverb is okay. I think it's shit
I would love to see a really a revamp of a lot of those audio effects on the tracker. I
But I do love shitty reverbs though
It's the clouds reverb, isn't it? I think it is inspired by holly verb. Yeah, it inspired by it
But I think it's I honestly I I think it sounds like shit. I would love to see like more ollie verbs sounds like shit
Yeah, but like I it has its charm. Yeah, that's fair. I don't find it charming
I would that's something I would like to see is a
an improvement and a more for a wider variety of
Effects, yeah, and really taking those well that too. That's something that again like I was really home for a tracker too
Yeah, don't have that type thing, you know, I mean just like
Everything that the tracker currently lacks on or you know missing or
I don't want 0.5 of the they are there. I mean they're they're doing work on right that original hardware and each
Each version has a you know pretty big amount of
Changes more effects in their better effects and a fucking FM drum machine into the tracker. The thing would be the ultimate
Same with the play, you know, I mean like if I think that would really sell me if they started adding those types of things to it
but
But I'm not
Nearly as adverse to as I was at the beginning. I can kind of see its usefulness now. Yeah for drum programming. I think like
Strictly program. Yeah, yeah
Really appreciating things with a little more focus lately that don't do everything in the world
So I can see that especially as compared to somebody who like
Just tried to use the seven MC 707 and like that whole thing which did like everything poorly
I'm appreciating things that do at least a couple as well
*music*
(dramatic music)
(the bell Charlestike.)